Knots have played an indelible role in the evolution of human civilsations, serving as fundamental tools for binding objects to each other. It was only in the mid 19th Century when knots were studied mathematically. In 1833, Carl Friedrich Gauss pionerred the advancement of Knot Theory by analysing various knots and links using techniques developed in differential geometry. Gauss subconciously hinted the idea that knots can be share the same behavioural tendencies as geometric objects. This motivates the utility of certain programming techniques, particularly recursion and recursive relations, that can be employed to further manipulate these objects. Such algorithms can be developed to efficiently study arbitrarily intricate knot structures, identifying patterns and allowing us to test hypotheses on properties of abstract knots. As a result, developments in Knot Theory in the past 50 years is directly correlated the increased usage of programming in mathematics.  

We begin by building intuition on recursive relations through the exploration of continuted fractions. In Section 1.1, we establish two unique functions that calculate a continuted fraction for a given p/q, where p,q are coprime. In doing so, we motivate the use of Euclid's Algorithm. Next, in Section 1.2, we develop an efficient function that will recalculate and output a rational number given an arbitrary list. These introductory exereices will provide the reader with a foundation on working with fractions and recursions computationally. As we progress, we shall delve deeper into the subtle relationship between recursion and knots - in particular, how we use recursive relations to define, examine, and test properties of knots. 

Having established the fundamentals, in the next chapter, we shall explore knot theory more abstractly, testing our hypotheses using the computational tools we have previously developed. We first introduce 2-bridge links - an object with several loops containing two local maxima - and design a function to output a 2-bridge link diagram for a given rational number p/q with certain conditions. We make use of the fact that, for every rational number p/q, where p,q are coprime, there exists an associated 2-bridge link S(p,q). Having constructed and optimised this algorithm, we proceed to run tests to deduce properties about 2-bridge links. This includes experiments on manipulating the parity of p and q, and testing potential periodicity of S(p,q). We conclude this chapter by investigating the relationship between S(p,q) and S(p,q’), where p is fixed and qq’ satisfies a given modular relation.



We conclude this project by introducing the notion of invariance, in particular, the d-invariant of S(p,q), a collection of p rational number.s (TO BE FINISHED AND MODIFIED AND ADDED TO)
